# Github-Authenticate-Method

## what is GitHub Authentication and how what methods available to be implemented?

To keep your account secure, you must authenticate before you can access certain resources on GitHub. When you authenticate to GitHub, you supply or confirm credentials that are unique to you to prove that you are exactly who you declare to be.

## Username and password only

After providing your username and password, you will be asked to provide a verification code that we will send to you via email. If you have the GitHub Mobile application installed, you'll receive a notification there instead.

## Two-factor authentication (2FA)

If you enable 2FA, after you successfully enter your username and password, we'll also prompt you to provide a code that's generated by a time-based one time password (TOTP) application on your mobile device or sent as a text message (SMS).

## SAML single sign-on

Before you can access resources owned by an organization or enterprise account that uses SAML single sign-on, you may need to also authenticate through an IdP

## Authenticating with the API

Authenticating to the API with a personal access token, app, GitHub Actions workflow,

## Authenticating with the HTTPS / SSH

## 15 Github Commands 

## 1. Git Clone
`git clone` is used for just downloading exactly what is currently working on the remote server repository and saving it in your machine's folder where that project is placed. (Only one time)

## 2. Git Fetch
`git fetch` just "downloads" the changes from the remote to your local repository. 

## 3. Git Pull
`git pull` is a (clone(download) + merge) operation and mostly used when you are working as teamwork. (Can be multiple time if there is new changes on the repo). git pull downloads the changes and merges them into your current branch. 

## 4. Git Add
`git add` is used to stage the all the file for commit to your local repository by the following command.

## 5. Git Branch
`git branch` is used to see list of available branch on local repository

## 6. Git Remote

To change the remote to SSH

`git remote set-url origin git@github.com:OWNER/REPOSITORY.git`

## 7. Git Checkout

switch to another branch and check it out into your working directory

## 8. Git Status
show modified files in working directory, staged for your next commit

## 9. Git Add [file]
add a file as it looks now to your next commit (stage)

## 10. Git Reset [file]
unstage a file while retaining the changes in working directory

## 11. Git Commit -m “[descriptive message]”
commit your staged content as a new commit snapshot

## 12. Git Log
show the commit history for the currently active branch

## 13. Git RM [file]
delete the file from project and stage the removal for commit

## 14. Git Reset --hard [commit]
clear staging area, rewrite working tree from specified commit

## 15. Git Stash
Save modified and staged changes

## 4 Github commands that you think you will use the most in the real project and why?

'Git Clone' creates a local copy of a project that already exists remotely. The clone includes all the project's files, history, and branches.

'Git Add' stages a change. Git tracks changes to a developer's codebase, but it's necessary to stage and take a snapshot of the changes to include them in the project's history.

'Git Pull' updates the local line of development with updates from its remote counterpart. Developers use this command if a teammate has made commits to a branch on a remote, and they would like to reflect those changes in their local environment.

'Git Push' updates the remote repository with any commits made locally to a branch.

